docs(hip-1137): add Block Node on-chain registration guide for HIP-1137 (#2889)
hiero-ledger/hiero-block-node: docs/block-node/block-node-on-chain-registration.md

| `registered_node_id`      | yes (assigned by network) | A `uint64` assigned by the network on creation. Unique within a shard/realm and never reused, even after deletion. Distinct from any consensus-node ID in the same network.                                                                                               |
| `admin_key`               | yes                       | The key that controls this entry. Must sign every create / update / delete transaction targeting this node. Recommended to be one or more public keys **not associated with any network account**. May be a `KeyList` or `ThresholdKey`; should not be a contract ID key. |
| `description`             | optional                  | Free-form text, ≤ 100 bytes UTF-8. Useful for distinguishing nodes (`alpha`, `us-east-archive-1`, etc.).                                                                                                                                                                  |

> | `service_endpoint` (list) | yes                       | At least 1, at most 50 entries. Each describes one Block Node endpoint. A single registered node may expose endpoints serving different `BlockNodeApi` values.                                                                                                            |

Reviewer: Endpoints are not specific to block nodes.  It might be good to avoid implying that they are.

```suggestion
| `service_endpoint` (list) | yes                       | At least 1, at most 50 entries. Each describes one service endpoint. A single registered node may expose endpoints serving multiple node types or multiple different `BlockNodeApi` values.                                                                                                            |
```

| `node_account`            | optional                  | An `AccountID` that identifies the entity financially responsible for the node. May be different from the operator. May be omitted, set, changed, or removed at the operator's discretion.                                                                                |

The `registered_node_id` is returned in the `TransactionReceipt` of a successful `createRegisteredNode` - record it; you will need it for every subsequent update or delete.

## Service endpoints

Each entry in `service_endpoint` carries (per the `RegisteredServiceEndpoint` message):

- An address - either an `ip_address` (IPv4 or IPv6, big-endian byte order) or a `domain_name` (FQDN, ≤ 250 ASCII characters). The two are mutually exclusive per endpoint.
- A `port` (`uint32`, `0`–`65535`).
- A `requires_tls` flag. If `true`, clients must connect over TLS. Self-signed certificates are permitted for testing but should not be used in production.

> - A `block_node` discriminator carrying a list of `BlockNodeApi` values declaring which API(s) the endpoint serves.

Reviewer: The service endpoint only includes the block_node discriminator if the endpoint represents a block node.  There are other options (including mirror node, relay node, and others).

A single endpoint may declare multiple values from this enum if it serves more than one API on the same host/port. Most production deployments split APIs across endpoints - for example, one endpoint for `PUBLISH` and a separate endpoint for `SUBSCRIBE_STREAM` - because the bandwidth and security profiles differ. The default gRPC port for the Block Node is `40840`; see [Block Node Configuration](./configuration.md) for the operator-side configuration of the underlying service.

### Which APIs to declare for your deployment

Not every Block Node serves every API. Use the following as a starting point and trim it to what your deployment actually exposes:

|                            Deployment shape                            |                                  Recommended `endpoint_api` set                                  |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Tier 1 receiving from Consensus Nodes and feeding downstream consumers | `PUBLISH`, `SUBSCRIBE_STREAM`, `STATUS` (add `STATE_PROOF` if the node serves proofs to clients) |

> | Tier 2 buffer in front of Mirror Nodes (no upstream from Consensus)    | `SUBSCRIBE_STREAM`, `STATUS`                                                                     |

Reviewer: State proofs are mostly expected to be available at tier 2.

```suggestion
| Tier 1 receiving from Consensus Nodes and feeding downstream consumers | `PUBLISH`, `SUBSCRIBE_STREAM`, `STATUS`                                                          |
| Tier 2 buffer in front of Mirror Nodes (no upstream from Consensus)    | `SUBSCRIBE_STREAM`, `STATUS` (add `STATE_PROOF` if the node serves proofs to clients)            |
```

## Registration lifecycle

Three operator-visible steps. All three transactions also support deferred execution via `SchedulableTransactionBody` if a registry change needs to be coordinated with other approvals or scheduled for a specific time.

### Step 1: Create the registration

Submit a `RegisteredNodeCreateTransactionBody`, signed by the new `admin_key`. On success, the transaction receipt carries the assigned `registered_node_id` - **record this value safely**; it is your handle for every subsequent update or delete. If lost, recover it by listing all Block Node registrations on the network and filtering by your `admin_key`, endpoint host, or description:

```bash
curl -s "https://{MIRROR_NODE_HOST}/api/v1/network/registered-nodes?type=BLOCK_NODE" \
  | jq '.registered_nodes[] | select(.service_endpoints[]?.domain_name == "{YOUR_ENDPOINT_HOST}")'

> ```

Reviewer: Should we add a note that _for Hedera mainnet_ this transaction is privileged and can only be run if the payer is an account between 0.0.2 and 0.0.55.

### Step 2: Update the registration

Submit a `RegisteredNodeUpdateTransactionBody` whenever a registered field changes:

- Endpoints change - you move to a new host, add a new API, add or remove TLS, etc.
- You rotate the `admin_key`.
- You change the `node_account` (set to `0.0.0` to remove it).
- The `description` should change.

The update transaction must be signed by the **current** `admin_key`. If you set a new `admin_key` in the same update, the new key applies from the next transaction onward. Updates are **replace** semantics on the `service_endpoint` list - if you set it, the whole list is replaced, not patched.

#### Rotating the `admin_key`

1. Generate the new key (single key, `KeyList`, or `ThresholdKey`) and store it in the operator's secret-management system **before** submitting any transaction. Losing the new key after step 3 below leaves the registration unreachable.
2. Compose a single `RegisteredNodeUpdateTransactionBody` that sets `admin_key` to the new key and changes no other fields you do not need to.

> 3. Sign with the **current** `admin_key`. Submit.

Reviewer: You need to sign this transaction with _both_ existing and new keys.
